3           PROPOSED EUROCONTROL SPECIFICATIONS

3.1         ATM Categorization of UAV Operations

3.1.1      There   are   numerous   ways   of   categorizing   UAVs,   eg   
weight,   role,   type,   etc.
Although each may be valid in context, it is flight rules that are most 
relevant to the
operation of  UAVs outside segregated airspace,  since these govern the ATM 
rules
and   regulations   that   apply   to   manned   aircraft.     Where   
necessary   for   these
Specifications,   therefore,   it   is   logical   that   the   operation   of  
 UAVs   should   be
categorized according to whether the sortie is flown under IFR or VFR as 
applied to
OAT.

Specification   UAV1.   For   ATM   purposes,   where  it   becomes   necessary 
 to
categorize  UAV  operations,  this  should  be  done  on  the  basis  of  
flight  rules,
namely IFR or VFR as applied to OAT.

3.2         Mode of Operation

3.2.1      Notwithstanding  any  pre-programmed  mission  autonomy,  the  
primary   mode  of
operation of a UAV for the purposes of ATM should entail oversight by the 
pilot-in-
command,  who  should  at  all  times  be  able  to  intervene  in  the  
management  of  its
flight.   However,  in  the  event  of  total loss  of  control data-link  
between the  pilot-in-
command  and  the  UAV,  a  back-up  mode  of  operation  should  enable  the  
UAV  to
revert  to  autonomous  flight  that  is  designed to ensure the safety  of  
other airspace
users.

Specification  UAV2.   For  ATM  purposes,  the  primary  mode  of  operation  
of  a
UAV should entail oversight by the pilot-in command, who should at all times
be  able  to  intervene  in  the  management  of  the  flight.    A  back-up  
mode  of
operation should enable the UAV to revert to autonomous flight in the event of
total  loss  of  control  data-link  between  the  pilot-in-command  and  the  
UAV.
This  back-up  mode  of  operation  should  ensure  the  safety  of  other  
airspace
users.

3.3         Flight Rules

3.3.1      In essence, the rules for manned aircraft require that VFR flights 
shall be conducted
so  that  the  aircraft  is  flown  in  conditions  of  visibility  and  
distance  from  clouds  not
less  than  those  specified,  while  the  rules  for  IFR  flight  require  
that  the  aircraft  is
equipped with suitable instruments and with navigation equipment appropriate to 
the
route  to  be  flown  and  with  the  required  provisions  when  operated  in  
controlled
airspace.   Outside  controlled  airspace,  an IFR flight  is  required  to fly 
 at  a cruising
level appropriate to its track.

3.3.2      Compliance with IFR should be relatively straightforward for a UAV 
since this relates
to the carriage of equipment that is already available to manned aircraft.   
However,
the rules for VFR flight pose a problem for a UAV insofar as it may be 
difficult for the
UAV  pilot-in  command  to  assess  whether  the  visibility  and  distance  
from  cloud
equate  to  VMC.   If  a  UAV  is  unable  to  establish  that  it  is  VMC,  
it  could  fly  IFR  if


properly  equipped,  although  this  would  constrain  its  freedom  of  
operation.    It  is
therefore in the interest of UAV operators that  UAVs should be designed to a 
level
which allows full alignment and transparency with manned aircraft for all 
flight rules,
including the ability to assess in-flight conditions.

Specification  UAV3.    UAVs  should  comply  with  VFR  and  IFR  as  they  
affect
manned aircraft flying OAT.   For VFR flight, the UAV pilot-in-command should
have the ability to assess in-flight meteorological conditions.

3.4         Separation Provision and Collision Avoidance

3.4.1      It  is  a  requirement  for  manned  aircraft  that  they  shall  
not  be  operated  in  such
proximity to other aircraft as to create a collision hazard, and it seems 
axiomatic that
the same requirement should apply to UAVs.   Notwithstanding, effective 
separation
provision   and   collision   avoidance   probably   represent   the   greatest 
  technical
challenge confronting the routine operation of UAVs outside segregated 
airspace.

3.4.2      The hierarchy for the application of separation provision and 
collision avoidance for
a UAV should be:

a.       ATC - separation provision.

b.       Pilot-in-command - separation provision and collision avoidance.

c.       Autonomous operation – collision avoidance.

3.4.3      Use  of  chase  aircraft  would  help  resolve  some  of  the  
problems  associated  with
collision avoidance by UAVs.   However, this is impracticable in the long term, 
given
the  anticipated  scale  of  future  UAV  operations,  and  would  remove  many 
 of  the
advantages  of  using  UAVs  in  place  of  manned  aircraft.     These  
specifications
therefore presume the absence of accompanying chase aircraft.

3.4.4      Right-of-Way

3.4.4.1   Most if not all nations apply the right-of-way as prescribed by ICAO 
(Rules of the Air,
Annex 2), and there is no reason to exempt UAVs.  Likewise, the rule on 
converging
aircraft  should  apply  according  to  whether  the  UAV  is  power-driven  
and  heavier-
than-air  or  is  an  airship  or  a  glider  or  a  balloon,  in  the  same  
way  it  applies  to
manned aircraft.

Specification UAV4.   UAVs should comply with the right-of-way rules as they
apply to other airspace users.

3.4.5      Separation from Other Airspace Users - IFR

3.4.5.1   Within   controlled   airspace,   separation   from   other   
airspace   users   is   normally
achieved  as  part  of  the  provision  of  an  air  traffic  service,  
although  this  does  not
permit the pilot to relax his vigilance for the purpose of detecting potential 
collisions.
For a UAV operating in controlled airspace, it is therefore reasonable to argue 
that
the   primary   means   of   achieving   separation   should   be   compliance  
 with   ATC
instructions.     However,  ATC  will  only  provide  separation  as  a  
function  of  the
airspace classification, and there is therefore a requirement for the UAV to be 
able
to  react  to  possible  conflict  with  unknown  traffic  in  the  same  way  
as  a  manned
aircraft, ie by first detecting the confliction and then manoeuvring to avoid 
it.


Specification  UAV5.   For  IFR  OAT  flight  by  UAVs  in  controlled  
airspace,  the
primary  means  of  achieving  separation  from  other  airspace  users  should 
 be
by  compliance  with  ATC  instructions.   However,  additional  provision  
should
be made for collision avoidance against unknown aircraft.

3.4.6      Separation from Other Airspace Users - VFR

3.4.6.1   It  is  implicit  when flying VFR that  the pilot  is  ultimately  
responsible for  maintaining
safe  separation  from  other  airspace  users  which,  in  a  manned  
aircraft,  he  will
achieve  by  remaining  VMC  and  by  maintaining  an  active  visual  scan  
and  taking
avoiding action as required.   The UAV must achieve the same result and do so 
with
an equivalent level of safety to a manned aircraft.

3.4.6.2   The  UAV  pilot-in-command  may  have  surveillance  information  
available  to  him  to
assist  him  with  separation  provision  and  collision  avoidance,  and  such 
 sources
should  be  utilised  wherever  practicable.     However,  in  addition,  he  
will  require
technical assistance to detect  and  avoid conflicting traffic  with the same 
degree of
assurance  as  a  manned  aircraft  flying  VFR.   Thus  provided  for,  he  
could  then  be
responsible for the safe conduct  of a flight, unless loss of control data-link 
 made it
impracticable,  at  which  point  an  automatic  system  would  take  over  to  
ensure
collision  avoidance.   The  technical  assistance  –  embracing  the  concept  
of  Sense
and Avoid – should therefore:

a.       Enable the UAV pilot-in-command to maintain VMC when operating VFR.

b.       Detect conflicting traffic.

c.       Enable the UAV pilot-in-command to interact with conflicting traffic in
accordance with the right-of way rules.

d.       Ensure automatic collision avoidance in the event of failure of 
separation
provision for whatever reason.

3.4.6.3   This   technical   assistance   would   also  supplement   the   air  
traffic   service   being
provided  when  a  UAV is  flying  VFR in controlled  airspace,  and  would 
significantly
enhance  safety   where  national  regulations   permit  IFR  flight  outside  
controlled
airspace.

Specification UAV6.   For VFR OAT flight by UAVs, the UAV pilot-in command
should  utilize  available  surveillance  information  to  assist  with  
separation
provision and collision avoidance.  In addition, technical assistance should be
available to the pilot-in-command to enable him to maintain VMC and to detect
and  avoid  conflicting  traffic.   An  automatic  system  should  provide  
collision
avoidance in the event of failure of separation provision.

3.5         Sense and Avoid

3.5.1      Sense  and  Avoid  (S&A)  is  a  generic  expression  employed  to  
reflect  a  technical
capability commensurate with a pilot’s ability to see and avoid other air 
traffic.

3.5.2      A  S&A  system  comprises  those  components  which  enable  a  UAV  
to  sense  and
avoid  other  airspace  users  in  real-time;  it  may  be  on-board,  or  
ground-based
involving the pilot-in-command, or a combination of both.

3.5.3      The primary  purpose of  an S&A system  is  to enable the  UAV  
pilot-in-command to
perform the dual functions of separation provision and collision avoidance 
normally


undertaken by the pilot of a manned aircraft.   Its secondary purpose is to 
undertake
collision  avoidance  autonomously  if  separation  provision  fails,  for  
example  in  the
event of loss of control data-link.  S&A is therefore essential to the safe 
operation of
UAVs outside segregated airspace.  Moreover, it must achieve an equivalent 
level of
safety to a manned aircraft.

Specification  UAV7.     A  UAV  S&A  system  should  enable  a   UAV   
pilot-in-
command  to  perform  those  separation  provision  and  collision  avoidance
functions  normally  undertaken  by  a  pilot  in  a  manned  aircraft,  and  
it  should
perform  a collision  avoidance  function  autonomously if  separation  
provision
has failed for whatever reason.  The S&A system should achieve an equivalent
level of safety to a manned aircraft.

3.5.4      In  essence,  a  S&A  system  should  provide  the  ability  to  
detect  conflicting  traffic  in
time to perform  an avoidance  manoeuvre.   The system  would then notify the  
UAV
pilot-in command of the conflict and propose a course of  action to pass  well 
clear.
In  the  subsequent  event  of  inaction  or  absence  of  override  by  the  
UAV  pilot-in-
command,  the  S&A  system  would  manoeuvre  the  UAV  autonomously  to  miss  
the
conflicting traffic.

Specification  UAV8.     A  UAV  S&A  system  should  notify  the  UAV  pilot-in
command when another aircraft in flight is projected to pass within a specified
minimum  distance.   Moreover,  it should  do  so in  sufficient  time  for  
the  UAV
pilot-in command to manoeuvre the UAV to avoid the conflicting traffic by at
least that distance or, exceptionally, for the onboard system to manoeuvre the
UAV autonomously to miss the conflicting traffic.

3.5.5      Notwithstanding  the  above  involvement  of  S&A  in  both  
separation  provision  and
collision avoidance, implementation of these functions should as far as is 
reasonably
practicable be independent of each other.   Their functionality should also 
minimize
situations   where  collision   avoidance   might   override   or  compromise  
separation
provision.

Specification  UAV9.    Implementation  of  separation  provision  and  
collision
avoidance   functions   in   an   S&A   system   should   as   far   as   is   
reasonably
practicable  be  independent  of  each  other.    In  execution,  they  should  
avoid
compromising each other.

3.5.6      Source  material  theorizes  on  possible  parameters  to  provide  
a  safe  and  effective
S&A capability, eg detection range and the search volume defined by  azimuth and
elevation that sensors need to scan.   However, such assessments should be left 
to
Industry as part of its work on producing a technological solution to S&A, 
especially
since   such   parameters   will   vary   according   to   UAV   performance   
(including
manoeuvrability).  For this, Industry needed guidance on the minimum separation 
to
be        achieved between UAVs and other airspace users.  Industry should then 
be able
to  calculate  the  necessary  parameters  to  achieve  this  minimum  
separation  and
engineer S&A systems accordingly.   However,  more than one minimum separation
distance  was  required,  and  a  ‘layered’  application  (eg  like  an  onion  
skin)  may  be
more appropriate.


3.6         Separation Minima – Where Separation is Provided by ATC

3.6.1      Where separation is provided by ATC within controlled airspace, and 
in accord with
the  principle  that  ATM  regulations  and  procedures  for  UAVs  should  as  
closely  as
possible  mirror  those  for  manned  aircraft,  the  separation  minima  
between  UAVs
operating IFR and other traffic in receipt of a separation service should be 
the same
as for manned aircraft flying OAT in the same class of airspace.

Specification UAV10.  Within controlled airspace where separation is provided
by ATC, the separation minima between UAVs operating IFR and other traffic
in receipt of a separation service should be the  same  as for  manned aircraft
flying OAT in the same class of airspace.

3.7         Separation Minima/Miss Distance – Where Responsibility Rests with 
the UAV
System

3.7.1      A  2-tier  system  is  envisaged  in  circumstances  where  
responsibility  for  separation
provision/collision  avoidance  rests  with  the  UAV  system  (in  the  same  
way  that  it
would  for  a  manned  aircraft).     The  first  level  would  involve  the  
UAV  pilot-in-
command and the second would utilize autonomous collision avoidance.   However,
the required miss distance for the latter should be less stringent than the 
minimum
separation  which  a  UAV  pilot-in-command  was  required  to  achieve,  since 
 it  was
seen as a last-ditch tool akin to TCAS II.

3.7.2      UAV Pilot-in-Command

3.7.2.1   There   are   no  prescribed  ICAO   separation   minima   for   
manned   aircraft   where
responsibility   for   separation   rested   with   the   onboard   pilot.   
Instead,   it   is   only
necessary that aircraft should not be operated in such proximity to other 
aircraft as
to create a collision hazard³.  However, Industry required something less 
vague.  As
a consequence,  a practical  minimum separation  to be achieved  by  a  UAV 
pilot-in-
command is proposed.

3.7.2.2   Several  authoritative  organizations  quote  or  imply  that  500ft  
is  an appropriate and
acceptable miss distance for UAVs.   In the USA, the FAA⁴ view of ‘well clear’ 
(ie so
as  to  not  represent  a  collision  hazard)  is  a  minimum  separation  of  
500ft  between
aircraft.      To   a   considerable   degree,   this   figure   is   accepted  
 by   the   Joint
JAA/EUROCONTROL  UAV  TF⁵  as  the  basis  for  recommending  work  to  identify
Minimum  Performance  Standards  (MPS)  for  future  S&A  systems.   Industry⁶  
itself
regards 500ft as a minimum ‘worst-case separation’ distance for S&A.  Finally, 
in the
context of manoeuvring between aircraft to achieve safe separation, NATO⁷ 
defines
500ft as ‘well clear’.

3.7.2.3   Thus, arguably, 500ft represents an adequate minimum distance that a 
UAV pilot-in-
command  should  be  required  to  achieve  against  other  airspace  users.   
However,
while use of 500ft vertical separation is routine between manned aircraft and 
should

³ ICAO Annex 2 - Rules of the Air, § 3.2.1

⁴ FAA Order 8700.1, Change 3, Chapter 169, § 5A

⁵ Joint JAA/EUROCONTROL UAV TF Final Report dated 11 May 04

⁶ UAVS Draft Paper ‘Guideline Parameters for an Integrated Sense and Avoid 
System for UAVs’

⁷ NATO AGS3 ‘UAV ATC Study for AGS’ dated 16 Dec 03


not therefore cause undue concern to other airspace users, the application of 
500ft
horizontal  separation  could  generate  a  heightened  sense  of  collision  
risk.    An
increase in horizontal separation to 0.5nm would reduce this perception and 
also the
collision  risk  itself,  and  is  therefore  preferable.    These  minima  
would  only  apply
away from aerodromes.

Specification  UAV11.     Where  a  UAV  pilot-in-command  is  responsible  for
separation, he should, except for aerodrome operations, maintain a minimum
distance  of  0.5nm  horizontally  or  500ft  vertically  between  his  UAV  
and  other
airspace  users,  regardless  of  how  the  conflicting  traffic  was  detected 
 and
irrespective of whether or not he was prompted by a S&A system.

3.7.3      Autonomous Collision Avoidance

3.7.3.1   Where a UAV system initiates collision avoidance autonomously, this 
is considered
analogous  to  the  role  performed  by  airborne  collision  avoidance  
systems  (ACAS)
developed  for  manned  aircraft,  as  currently  manifest  in  TCAS  II.   
However,  since
TCAS II is a co-operative⁸ system, it does not provide a near-term solution to 
S&A.
This  may  become feasible  if  the carriage and  operation  of  SSR (providing 
 altitude
information) is ever mandated on all airspace users, but not before.

3.7.3.2   TCAS uses time-to-go to Closest Point of Approach rather than minimum 
separation
distance,  although  distance  and  altitude  difference  are  taken  into  
account  where
closure  rates  are  low.   In  addition,  the  size  of  the  protected  
volume  surrounding
each  TCAS-equipped  aircraft  is  dependant  upon  the  speed  and  heading  
of  the
aircraft  involved  in  the  encounter.   Some  idea  of  miss  distances  may  
be  gleaned
from  the  prescribed  alarm  thresholds  required  to  generate  a  TCAS  II  
Resolution
Advisory in the case of low closure rate; these vary according to altitude but 
are set
between 0.2-1.1nm laterally and 300-700ft vertically⁹.

3.7.3.3   In the case of autonomous collision avoidance, it is considered 
logical to require the
UAV system to achieve miss  distances  similar to  those designed into ACAS.   
The
system should be compatible with (and not compromise the operation of) ACAS.

Specification  UAV12.     Where  a  UAV  system  initiates  collision  avoidance
autonomously,  it  should  achieve  miss  distances  similar  to  those  
designed
into ACAS.  The system should be compatible with ACAS.

3.8         Aerodrome Operations

3.8.1      Extant  national  procedures  for  the  aerodrome  operation  of  
UAVs  are  surprisingly
sparse.  Nonetheless, principles similar to those for UAV flight as OAT should 
apply.
Thus,  UAV  operations  at  aerodromes  should  interface  with  the  aerodrome 
 control
service as near as possible in the same way as manned aircraft.

Specification UAV13. UAV operations at aerodromes should interface with the
aerodrome  control  service  as  near  as  possible  in  the  same  way  as  
manned
aircraft.

⁸ Requires common fitment of equipment.

⁹ FAA Introduction to TCAS II Version 7 dated Nov 00


3.8.2      Although UAVs  may  be launched and recovered in a variety  of  ways 
(eg by  hand,
catapult,  etc),  these  specifications  assume  a  requirement  to  use  
taxiways  and
runways.

3.8.3      Ground Operation

3.8.3.1   In  this  context,  Ground  Operation  covers  the  movement  of  a  
UAV  from  parking
position to lift-off  and from touchdown to  parking  position,  and includes  
integration
with manned aircraft and vehicles using the manoeuvring areas and the avoidance
of runway incursions.

3.8.3.2   In the absence of technical assistance to enable a UAV to navigate 
its way around
an  airfield,  to  see  and  obey  visual  signs  and  signals,  and  to  avoid 
 collisions,  the
UAV should be provided with ground-based observation to assist with taxiing.   
This
may  involve the  UAV following  a  manned  ground vehicle  by  optical or 
other  (non-
mechanical) coupling or being towed to the take-off position.   These 
ground-based
observers should be in communication with the aerodrome control service and with
the  UAV pilot-in-command.   A similar procedure should apply to return the UAV 
to
its parking position.

Specification UAV14.   When taxiing, and in the absence of adequate technical
assistance,  a  UAV  should  be  monitored  by  ground-based  observers,  who
should  be in communication with the aerodrome control service and with the
UAV pilot-in-command.

3.8.4      Runway and Aerodrome Visual Circuit

3.8.4.1   Take-off  and  landing  and  flight  in  an  aerodrome  visual  
circuit  should  accord  with
national   procedures,   and   the   UAV   should   follow   aerodrome   
control   service
instructions.

3.8.4.2   Irrespective   of   flight   conditions,   the    UAV    
pilot-in-command   should   remain
responsible for ensuring his flight path is clear of obstructions and should 
therefore
maintain situational awareness with regard to the runway and the aerodrome 
visual
circuit.    This  does  not  preclude  UAVs  from  executing  autonomous  
take-offs  and
landings,  but  is  intended  to  enable  the  UAV  pilot-in-command  to  
intervene  in
response to aerodrome control service instructions - which may include 
integration
with other traffic flying in the aerodrome visual circuit - and to assume 
responsibility
for collision avoidance.

Specification  UAV15.    For  take-off  and  landing  and  flight  in  an  
aerodrome
visual   circuit,   the   UAV   pilot-in-command   should   be   able   to   
maintain
situational  awareness  to  fulfil  his  responsibility  for  collision  
avoidance,  and
he should comply with aerodrome control service instructions.

3.8.4.3   Where safe integration is impracticable, consideration should be 
given to excluding
other aircraft from the airspace in the immediate vicinity of an aerodrome 
during the
launch and recovery of UAVs.

Specification  UAV16.  Where  safe  integration  is  impracticable,  
consideration
should be given to excluding other aircraft from the airspace in the immediate
vicinity of an aerodrome during the launch and recovery of UAVs.


3.9         Emergency Procedures

3.9.1      With  regard  to  ATM,  the  TF  considered  it  to  be  outside  
its  scope  to  identify  and
address the multifarious  emergencies that  might  befall a military  UAV.   
This Paper
therefore deals with these only in general terms.

3.9.2      UAV  emergency  procedures  should  mirror  those  for  manned  
aircraft  wherever
possible.   Nevertheless, the absence of a pilot in the cockpit and the unique 
nature
of  some  UAV  emergencies  will  require  additional  provisions.   These  may 
 include
use  of  an  Emergency  Recovery  Procedure  or  a  Flight  Termination  
System,  either
autonomously  or  managed  by  the  UAV  pilot-in-command.   Such  
pre-programmed
emergency flight profiles should be designed to ensure the safety of other 
airspace
users  and  people  on  the  ground,  and  they  should  be  coordinated  with  
ATC  as
appropriate.

Specification  UAV17.    UAV  emergency  procedures  should  mirror  those  for
manned  aircraft   as   far   as   practicable.     Where   different,   they   
should   be
designed  to  ensure  the  safety  of  other  airspace  users  and  people  on  
the
ground, and they should be coordinated with ATC as appropriate.

3.9.3      Loss of Control-Link Between UAV and Pilot-in-Command

3.9.3.1   The  potential  for  loss  of  control-link  between  a  UAV  and  
its  pilot-in-command
requires that the craft be pre-programmed with an appropriate contingency plan.

Specification  UAV18.   UAVs  should  be  pre-programmed  with  an  appropriate
contingency  plan  in  the  event  that  the  pilot-in-command  is  no  longer  
in
control     of the UAV.

3.9.3.2   Given that  one of the more likely causes of loss  of control of a 
UAV by its pilot-in-
command is loss of data-link, the UAV System should provide the pilot-in-command
with a prompt indication of any such loss of control data-link.

Specification UAV19.  A UAV System should provide a prompt indication to its
pilot-in-command in the event of loss of control data-link.

3.9.3.3   It is important that ATC be made aware if a UAV flying in its 
airspace is no longer
under the control of its pilot-in-command.   This should be accomplished both 
by the
pilot-in-command informing ATC as soon as possible and by the UAV System itself
providing  an  indication  to  ATC,  possibly  by  operation  of  a  specific  
squawk.   The
pilot-in-command  should  also  advise  ATC  of  the  contingency  plan  which  
the  UAV
will be executing.

Specification  UAV20.   When  a  UAV  is  not  operating  under  the  control  
of  its
pilot-in-command, the latter should inform the relevant ATC authority as soon
as  possible,  including  details  of the contingency  plan  which the  UAV  
will  be
executing.   In addition, the UAV System should indicate such loss of control
to ATC.

3.10       Airspace Management

3.10.1    Flexible Use of Airspace (FUA) is a key component of present and 
future European
airspace management and, as such, provides a means of accommodating portions


of   a   UAV   sortie   where   operating   requirements   or   technical   or  
 functional
shortcomings  render  it  incompatible  with  other  air  traffic.    Thus,  
where  a  UAV
system cannot meet all the requirements of a complex airspace structure, 
processes
associated with airspace management should be utilized to reserve airspace for 
the
express purpose of enabling the UAV to transit the airspace in question.

Specification UAV21.   Where a UAV system cannot meet the technical and/or
functional requirements for operation as OAT, that portion of the sortie should
be accommodated within temporary reserved airspace to provide segregation
from other airspace users.

3.11       Interface with ATC

3.11.1    In general, UAV operations should interface with ATC in the same way 
as manned
aircraft.  Ergo,  the  air  traffic  service  routinely  provided  to  a  UAV  
should  require  no
special action or consideration on the part on an ATC controller.

3.11.2    Communications

3.11.2.1 While in receipt of an air traffic service, the UAV pilot-in command 
should maintain
2-way  communications  with  the  appropriate  ATC  authorities,  and  should  
make  all
position and other reports as required.

3.11.2.2 Extant  ATC  phraseology  is  adequate  for  the  provision  of  an  
air  traffic  service  to
UAVs except that a controller may find it helpful to be aware that he was 
providing
an air traffic service to a UAV.   The word ‘unmanned’ should therefore be 
included
on first contact with an ATC unit.   However, it was not felt necessary to 
alert other
airspace  users  to  the  presence  of  a  UAV  on  frequency  by  repeating  
the  word  on
every transmission.

Specification UAV22.  While in receipt of an air traffic service, the UAV 
pilot-in
command  should  maintain  2-way  communications  with  ATC,  using  standard
phraseology when communicating via RTF.   The word ‘unmanned’ should be
included on first contact with an ATC unit.

3.11.3    Air Traffic Service

3.11.3.1 The air traffic service provided to UAVs should accord with that 
provided to manned
aircraft,  including  separation  criteria.    Thus,  the  UAV  pilot-in  
command  will  be
required to comply  with any ATC instruction or request for information made by 
an
air  traffic  unit  in  the  same  way  and  within  the  same  timeframe  as  
the  pilot  of  a
manned aircraft.  Where this is not possible, eg because it is not technically 
feasible,
then the UAV pilot-in command must make a clear statement to ATC to this effect,
eg ‘Negative, unable to comply’.

Specification UAV23.   The air traffic service provided to UAVs should accord
with that provided to manned aircraft.

3.11.4    Flight Planning

3.11.4.1 Where flight by manned aircraft requires the submission of a flight 
plan to ATC, the
same should apply to flight by UAVs.


3.11.4.2 The flight plan should indicate that it relates to an unmanned 
aircraft.

3.11.4.3 Due to the typical nature of UAV operations, it is anticipated that 
requirements may
occur for en-route holding (ie orbits).  Accordingly, the UAV flight plan 
should include
any requirements for en-route delays, defining holding area orientation, leg 
lengths,
altitudes and holding times.

Specification   UAV24.       Where    flight    by    manned   aircraft    
requires    the
submission of a flight plan to ATC, the same should apply to flight by UAVs.
The UAV flight plan should indicate that it relates to an unmanned aircraft, and
should include details of any requirement for en-route holding.

3.11.5    Flight Deviations

3.11.5.1 While in receipt of an air traffic service, UAVs should be monitored 
continuously by
the UAV pilot-in command for adherence to the approved flight plan.  All 
requests for
flight deviations should be made by using established procedures to the 
appropriate
ATC authorities.

Specification  UAV25.   While  in  receipt  of  air  traffic  service,  UAVs  
should  be
monitored  continuously  by  the  UAV  pilot-in  command  for  adherence  to  
the
approved flight plan.

3.11.6    UAV Performance Characteristics

3.11.6.1 The  performance  characteristics  of  individual  UAVs  will  vary.   
 Pilots-in-command
should have detailed knowledge of their particular vehicle.  However, the 
knowledge
requirement for ATC controllers will perforce be more general, in the same way 
it is
for       the  various  types  of   manned  aircraft  they   routinely  
control.     They  should
therefore be familiar with UAV performance characteristics insofar as they 
relate to
integration  with other traffic  under their control,  eg airspeed,  rate of  
climb/descent,
turn radius, etc.

Specification  UAV26.   Pilots-in-command  should  have  detailed  knowledge  of
the  performance  characteristics  of  their  particular  vehicle.    ATC  
controllers
should be familiar with UAV performance characteristics insofar as they relate
to integration with other traffic under their control.

3.12       Meteorology

3.12.1    Similar to manned aircraft, weather minima for UAV flight will be 
determined by the
equipment and capabilities of each UAV system, the qualifications of the UAV 
pilot-
in command, the flight rules being flown and the class(es) of airspace in which 
the
flight is conducted.

Specification   UAV27.      The   weather   minima   for   UAV   flight   
should   be
determined   by  the   equipment  and  capabilities  of  each  UAV  system,   
the
qualifications  of  the  UAV  pilot-in  command,  the  flight  rules  being  
flown  and
the class of airspace in which the flight is conducted.


3.13       Flight Across International Borders and Across Flight and Upper 
Information
Region (FIR/UIR) Boundaries

3.13.1    As state aircraft,  UAVs  are theoretically  exempt the requirement  
of  Article 8 of  the
Chicago  Convention  for  special  authorization  for  unmanned  aircraft  to  
fly  over  the
territory of another state.  However, Article 3 precludes state aircraft from 
flying over
the territory of another state without authorization by special agreement.  
Conscious
of the potential sensitivity of flight across international borders, the TF 
took the view
that Article 3 applied to state UAVs, and that they should therefore be the 
subject of
authorization by special agreement.

3.13.2    International  borders  do  not  necessarily  coincide  with  FIR/UIR 
 boundaries.    To
reduce  the  potential  for  misunderstanding  in  such  circumstances,  and  
to  enhance
flight  safety  by  ensuring  that  air  navigation  service  providers  
(ANSPs)  are  made
aware of UAV activity within airspace for which they have responsibility, the 
TF felt
that, where it was planned for a UAV flight to enter another FIR/UIR or the 
sovereign
airspace  of  another  state,  then  details  of  the  flight  should  be  
pre-notified  to  the
relevant   airspace   authority.      This   should   normally   be   
accomplished   by   the
submission of a flight plan.

3.13.3    Where  an  air  traffic  service  is  being  provided  to  a  UAV  by 
 ATC  and  transfer  is
required to an ATC unit in an adjacent state, this should be conducted in the 
same
manner as for manned aircraft.

Specification  UAV28.    With  regard  to  cross-border  operations,  state  
UAVs
should  be  bound  by  the  same  international  conventions  as  manned  state
aircraft.    In  addition,  flights  by  state  UAVs  into  other  FIR/UIRs  or 
 into  the
sovereign  airspace  of  other  states  should  be  pre-notified  to  the  
relevant
airspace  authorities,  normally  by submission  of a  flight  plan.   ATC  
transfers
between adjacent states should accord with those for manned aircraft.

3.14       OAT CNS Functionality Requirements

3.14.1    When flying outside segregated airspace,  UAV  CNS functionality  and 
performance
should  be  equivalent  to  that  required  for  manned  aircraft,  and  
appropriate  to  the
airspace in which the UAV is flying and to any air traffic service provided to 
the UAV.
This   is  in  addition  to  functionality  related  to  possible  
communication  relay  and
control data-linking, and to the S&A system(s) previously discussed.


3.14.2    Depending on the sortie, a UAV may be required to carry some or all 
of the following
CNS functionality:

a.       Radio Communications. Capable of forming part of the architecture that
enables the UAV pilot-in-command to communicate with ATC on regular ATC
frequencies.

b.       Navigation Systems. Capable of providing data in a format that will 
enable the
UAV pilot-in-command to report in accordance with ATC requirements.

c.       Transponder. An operable SSR transponder that will allow the UAV 
pilot-in-
command to respond to ATC requests to alter settings, squawk ident, etc.

3.14.3    Notwithstanding the above, where, for technical or operational 
reasons, compliance
with specific CNS functionality requirements is not possible or is not 
warranted, the
exemption policy¹⁰ applicable to manned state aircraft should extend to UAVs.

3.14.4    Although ACAS may seem ideally suited for installation in UAVs, it  
was  developed
for manned aircraft,  and further research is  required before any  system 
employing
ACAS technology could be considered for use on UAVs.

Specification   UAV29.     UAVs   should   carry   similar   functionality   
for   flight,
navigation  and  communication  to  that  required  for  manned  aircraft.    
The
exemption  policy  for  manned  state  aircraft  with  regard  to  specific  
equipage
requirements should also apply to state UAVs.

3.14.5    In accord with the principle that the provision of an air traffic 
service to a UAV should
be transparent to an ATC controller, there is no requirement for a continuous 
ground
link  between  ATC  and  the  UAV  pilot-in-command  to  supplement  
communications
conducted via the UAV itself.  Nevertheless, it would be prudent for the UAV 
pilot-in-
command to have some other means of communicating with ATC in case of loss of
linkage via the UAV.

Specification UAV30.   The UAV pilot-in-command should be provided with an
independent  means  of  communication  with  ATC  in  case  of  loss  of  normal
communications linkage, for example via telephone.

3.14.6    When in receipt of an ATS, it is clearly important that there should 
be minimal delay
in the ability of a pilot-in-command to respond to ATC instructions, 
particularly when
these relate to separation provision.  The pilot-in-command should therefore be 
able
to provide a prompt response to separation provision instructions similar to 
that by a
pilot of a manned aircraft.

Specification UAV31. A pilot-in-command should be able to provide a prompt
response  to  separation  provision  instructions  similar  to  that  by  a  
pilot  of  a
manned aircraft.

¹⁰ CMIC Policy Guidance for the Exemption of State Aircraft from Compliance 
with Specific Aircraft
Equipage Requirements dated 4 Mar 03